Lucas Bouchard
Problem set 5
9/24/18


Monday: 

1.) Starbucks wants to evaluate whether their mobile pay solutions are having a positive impact on customer service. Outline how they might collect data to answer this question using:

A. An Observational Study

If I were to use an observational study to help starbucks evaluate whether their mobile pay solutions was having a positive impact on customer service, I would be most interested in observing how many people were using the mobile pay vs. traditional methods of payment. I might also consider looking at how long people wait in line when using mobile pay and the type of products they are purchasing. Although this is something that can be done through in person observation, I believe that a quick customer survey would be more ideal. The way I might come to a conclusion about customer satifsaction is by observing whether the amount of people using mobile pay exceeds people using regular paying methods. 


B. Focus Groups

With this data collecting method I would be able to focus on a small group of participants and focus only on what I need to know. This method is useful for when short on time and need this information quickly. I would ask particpants what they prefered between mobile pay and traditional forms of payment. I might also ask what their general thoughts were about the service and whether they believed it provide a more positive experience for them when going to Starbucks. Obviously this type of method could result in biases, however, it would be useful for achieving a general sense of what customers were thinking. 


C. An Online Survey

I believe that this method of data collecting would be most efficient in determining customer satisfaction becuase we would be able to study a much larger population. We wouldn't have to worry about as many biases as what you might find in observations or study groups. In order to incentivize people to take the survey I would simply offer a free coffee with next purchase. In terms of what questions I would ask I would simply look for which type of payment people most prefer whether that be the mobile payment or regular methods of payment. I might even ask customers when they were most likely to use mobile cash depending on what products they were buying, the time of day they were going, etc.  


2.) In 2014, Facebook conducted their infamous Emotional Contagion study where they manipulated users' newsfeeds to contain differing amounts of positive and negative content. Name the (a) research question, (b) independent variables, and (c) dependent variables that Facebook used in this study.

The research question that Facebook was trying to answer was whether emotional contagion occured between individuals on Facebook. In other words, does Facebook have the ability to make you feel good or bad?  

The independant variable would have been the automated system that manipulated the type of content displayed on Facebook users' feeds. 

The dependent variable would be the type of posts users were making and whether they had a negative or postive sentiment.


3.) What kind of data collection strategies would you use to:

A. Determine user perceptions of a social media campaign

Similar to what Facebook used for their study, I would use an "observational" study to determine if a campaign was negatively or positively percieved. The best way to go about this might be to look at the comment section of a post that depicts a campaign and see how this was being percieved by the public. Obviously, you wont be able to test this simply by scrolling through comments so you would need to collect ever comment and push it through a sentiment analysis program. You could also run a survey which could be equally as effective at determining public perception, however, the number of data points you collect will far less significant. 

B. Assess the effectiveness of a web redesign

If I were to determine the effectiveness of a web redesign I would most be interested in web traffic, Bounce rate, average time on page, CTA click-through rate, and conversion rate for before the redesign was completed and after. You could put out a survey or do some sort of observational study, however, log data will be you best bet

C. Decide whether the next iPhone will live up to its hype (and turn a profit)

I'm still a bit confused about this assignment and whether we are only restricted to these three data collection methods. If we aren't restricted I would certainly look at what people were posting about it online. What type of comments were people replying to Apple's advertisements? Are there more postive or negative associated posts depicted people's perceptions about the upcoming iphone? You would need to conduct some form of sentiment analysis or key word search to see if people were more likely to buy the new iphone or not compared to previous years. 

If we are restricted to these three methods I would definitely use an online survey study. Although you'll have limitations, due to a sparse number of data points, you might be able to get an intial sense of people's perceptions. 


4. For the three scenarios above, describe how you would conduct each investigation (i.e., not only the type of method, but what question would you answer, what procedure would you use, what kind of data would you collect, and how would you analyze that data to answer your question). 

A. To determine whether people were perceiving a social media campaign positively or negatively I would chose an online study, if we were limited to these three methods. The questions I would ask participants would include whether they agreed or disagreed with a campaigns message. Do you find this campaign offensive? why or why not? I would also be interested in observing how many likes a campaign recieves along with the type of comments people were leaving. The procedure would include putting out a poll for anyone willing to particpate in and give their thoughts. I would analyze the data by looking at the ratio of people who did or did not find a campaign to be negative. 

B. Determining whether a new webdesign through these three methods can be kind of tricky. Sure you could put out a survey asking whether people has a positive experience with the new design but you would have no idea why. This is why I think it would be important to look at log data and determine the effectiveness of the design through this. The procedure I would use includes tracking a websites activity before and after the new design is implemented. The data I would collect is the same as what I mentioned in the previous problem. I would simply use traditional methods of data analysis to determine wether the new design was successful. You could also compare your numbers to other website designs to help come to a conclusion as to what needs to be fixed. 

C. Determining how many people are going to buy the new iphones, compared to previous years, is certainly a bit trickier. You could certainly put out a few servays to get an intial sense of what people were thinking. You could also look at the prevelance of negative vs postive posts relating to the new iphone. Personally, I know that people are less likely to buy the new iphone this year simply becuase I have yet to see and youtube or social media post that isn't bashing the new phones release. Negativity definitely outways anything positive. The data I would collect from a survey would most likely be tailored towards whether they would or would not buy the next iphone and why. Too expensive? No need? Not enough new features? etc. Analyze this data with traditional analytical methods.  

5. Describe how you might use data fusion to determine how the location people are in influences the ways they communicate with others. Assume you have full access to data from all technologies that a person may be carrying with them or that may be embedded in the environment. 

I believe that data fusion would be helpful in this situation because it's important to look at multiple sources of data to build sophisticated models and reach a deeper understanding of what they underlining question should be. If I were to personally go about determining this with data fusion I would initially be interested in looking at the idea of self-concept. This is essentially how we self-identify as a person and the ideas one holds true to him or herself. If I were to hypothetically have access every person's posts on Facebook, I'd want to look at the type of words people were using, vocabularly, tone, the type of messages being posted, and location of where that message was being posted from. We could then determine if there is any correlation between a location and the type of words/topics mentioned more or less frequently from said location. Now that we have this data, we could then look at the communicative differences between location A and B. Which words were being used more and in what type of instances? The best example that comes to mind would be to look at controversial topics and campaigns. How are people communicating about politics in two seperable areas? This problem confuses me becuase I don't quite understand if we're interested in the type of words people use, the topics discussed, how people react to eachother, or how people are physically capable of communicating with others. If it's just a matter of words people use I would use the methods I mentioned above. I might also explore observational and focus groups as this could have some interesting insight as to how people communicate. By putting two people in a room who are from entirely different parts of the country, you could observe them having a conversation and see what their communicative differences are. After this combine all data from these methods and come to a consensus. Maybe we could come up with a more specific question and continue research. 

Friday

6. Link for part one is in other file "Parsers.py"